"NIC Welding I":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None.", "Notes": "This is the first course in the Welding path of study. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway.  Welding gloves, safety glasses, and steel-toed leather boots are required for Lab Safety.", "Description": "Welding I students will learn basics skills and knowledge related to cutting and welding applications. Course content includes safe practices, career research, leadership development, and basic arc welding and thermal cutting skills. Combined with the second and third year courses, Basic Principles of Welding and Welding Applications and Certification, the student should be prepared for Entry Level Welder Certification, as defined by American Welding Society QC10.A written safety test must be passed with 100% before student is allowed to work in the lab. Membership in Skills USA is encouraged. Students will take certification tests for various welding processes and positions. Students who complete the three-course sequence should be prepared for Entry Level Welding Certification, as defined by American Welding Society, QC10.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"NIC Welding II":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Welding I and instructor recommendation", "Notes": "This is the second course in the Welding path of study. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway.  Welding gloves, safety glasses, and steel-toed leather boots are required for Lab Safety.", "Description": "Welding II is a course designed to follow Introduction to Welding, in which students will learn more advanced skills and knowledge related to cutting and welding applications. Development of welding and cutting skills will be continued in the context of a series of projects. Combined with the third course, Advanced Welding applications and Certification, the student should be prepared for Entry Level Welding Certification, as defined by American Welding Society QC10. Students will take certification tests for various welding processes and positions. Students that complete the three-course sequence should be prepared for Entry Level Welding Certification, as defined by American Welding Society, QC10.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"DE/NIC Welding":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Welding II and teacher recommendation.", "Notes": "This is the third course in the Welding path of study and may be repeated for additional hours of credit and certification. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. Welding gloves, safety glasses, and steel-toed leather boots are required for Lab Safety. Students will take certification tests for various welding processes and positions. Certification: Entry-Level American Welding Society, QC10. Dual Enrollment is available through Tennessee College of Applied Technology, Knoxville.", "Description": "DE Welding is a course designed to teach more advanced techniques and skills related to cutting and welding applications. Welding and cutting skills developed in Welding 1 and Welding 2 will be used to satisfactorily complete a series of industry certification tests. Following the completion of this course, including successful passage defined by American Welding Society QC10.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
