"Broadcasting I":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "This is an introductory course to the A/V Production (Broadcasting) pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway.", "Description": "This is a foundational course in the Arts, A/V Technology & Communications cluster for students interested in A/V production occupations. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be to explain and complete the phases of the production process including pre-production, production, and post-production. Students will establish basic skills in operating cameras and the technology and engineering of other production equipment. Standards in this course include career exploration, an overview of the history and evolution, and legal issues affecting A/V production. Students will learn digital editing, news research and writing, and ways to create complete informative news items. Much of the work produced will air on the school television channel.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"Dual Credit Broadcasting II":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Broadcasting 1", "Notes": "This is the second course in the A/V Production (Broadcasting) pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. This course has a project opportunity for honors credit and/or dual credit with PSCC.", "Description": "This is the second course in the A/V Production program of study intended to prepare students for careers in audio/video production. Students will advance in technical skill in utilizing industry equipment related to video shooting and editing, and planning productions. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be able to plan, capture, and edit productions of increasing complexity, individually and collaboratively in teams. In addition to more robust career preparation, standards in this course include an investigation of concerns affecting A/V production businesses, such as ethical and legal issues, technology/engineering, funding, and the organization of professional roles in various industries. Much of the work produced will air on the school television channel.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"Broadcasting III Honors":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Broadcasting II", "Notes": "This is the third course in the A/V Production (Broadcasting) pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. This course has a project opportunity for honors credit and/or dual credit with PSCC.", "Description": "This is an applied-knowledge course intended to prepare students to pursue careers and postsecondary learning in audio/video production. Students in this course will apply knowledge and skills from previous courses in the program of study to create productions both independently and in teams. Students will use industry equipment and technology to complete all phases of the production process, including planning, coordinating, capturing, editing, and distributing productions. Standards in this course include policies and regulations, independent and collaborative productions, distribution of media, and the production of live events. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be prepared for a career in audio/video production or to transition to a postsecondary program for further study. All work produced will air on the school television channel.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"Applied Arts Practicum":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Broadcasting or Digital Arts 3", "Notes": "This is the capstone course in the A/V Production (Broadcasting) and Digital Arts pathways. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway.", "Description": "The Applied Arts Practicum is a capstone course intended to provide students with the opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge learned in previous Arts, A/V Technology, & Communications courses within a professional, working environment. In addition to developing an understanding of the professional and ethical issues encountered by professionals in these careers, students learn to refine their skills in problem solving, research, communication, teamwork, and project management through the completion of a course-long project. The course is highly customizable to meet local system needs.  Instruction may be delivered through school laboratory training or through work-based learning arrangements such as internships, service learning, and job shadowing. Upon completion of the practicum, proficient students will be prepared to pursue postsecondary study in arts, A/V technology, or communications programs; or seek additional training or employment with the aid of the portfolio, which documents the student’s work completed throughout the program of study.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"NIC Digital Arts & Design I":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "This is an introductory course to the Digital Arts & Design pathway. Students who wish to CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. Only this Digital Arts class can satisfy the fine art graduation requirement and count toward an Arts and A/V Communication area of focus simultaneously.", "Description": "This is a foundational course in the Arts, A/V Technology & Communications academy for students interested in art and design professions. The primary aim of this course is to build a strong understanding of the principles and elements of design and the design process. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be able to utilize industry tools to conceptualize and create communications solutions which effectively reach targeted audiences. Students will acquire basic skills in illustration, typography, and photography. Standards in this course include career exploration, an overview of the history of design, basic business management, and legal issues. Skills learned in this path of study translate well into other STEM design applications, such as CAD.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"NIC Digital Arts & Design II":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Digital Arts & Design I", "Notes": "This is the second course in the Digital Arts & Design pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway.", "Description": "This is a course that builds on the basic principles and the design process learned in the introductory Digital Arts & Design I course. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be able to perform advanced software operations to create photographs and illustrations of increasing complexity. Students will employ design principles and use industry software to create layouts for a variety of applications. Standards in this course also include an overview of art and design industries, career exploration, and business management. Skills learned in this path of study translate well into other STEM design applications, such as 3D modeling.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"NIC Digital Arts & Design IIIS,T,E,M":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Digital Arts & Design II", "Notes": "This is the third course in the Digital Arts & Design pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. This course has a project opportunity for honors credit and/or dual credit with PSCC. Students may wish to pursue Adobe Certification in this course. There is a requested $25 per month student-covered Adobe Creative Cloud fee.  Certification: Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator", "Description": "This is the third course in the Digital Arts & Design program of study. Applying design skills developed in prior courses, students will expand their creative and critical thinking skills to create comprehensive multimedia projects and three-dimensional designs. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be able to use industry-standard software to create multimedia projects, web pages, three- dimensional models, and animations. Students will utilize research techniques to plan and enhance project outcomes. Standards in this course also include professionalism and ethics, career exploration, and business and project management.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"Digital Art Foundations":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": " Digital Art Foundations can satisfy the fine art graduation requirement. This course was designed as a stand only course for students interested in Digital Art but not Digital Arts & Design Pathway.", "Description": "This is a foundational course in the Visual Arts Department for students interested in art and design professions. The primary aim of this course is to build a strong understanding of the principles and elements of design and the design process. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be able to utilize industry tools to conceptualize and create communications solutions which effectively reach targeted audiences. Students will acquire basic skills in illustration, typography, and photography. Standards in this course include career exploration, an overview of the history of design, basic business management, and legal issues. Skills learned in this path of study translate well into other STEM design applications, such as CAD.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
