"United States Government CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Term"], "Credits": [".5"], "Prerequisites": " None", "Notes": " Students who register for this course must select another term course to partner with this one. Contemporary Issues is the default and suggested pairing.", "Description": "Government is designed to provide students with a practical study of the functions and workings of the United States Government. Students will examine important governmental issues including: the rights and responsibilities of citizenship, the need for active citizen participation, immigration and naturalization, the roots of American democracy, the structure and function of the United Sates Constitution, and the workings of the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government. There will also be an emphasis placed upon current events to ensure that students are familiar with important global and domestic issues.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"Contemporary Issues":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Term"], "Credits": [".5"], "Prerequisites": " None", "Notes": " Students who register for this course must select another term course to partner with this one. United States Government CP is the default and suggested pairing.", "Description": "Students will use inquiry skills to examine the issues that impact the contemporary world. Students will analyze the historical, cultural, economic, and geographic factors that have elevated certain issues to levels of concern in the United States and around the globe. Students will engage in research and problem solving in order to better understand and assess significant current issues.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"AP United States Government & Politics Combined Studies":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "For this AP course, students should have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the preceding social studies course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent social studies TCAP assessment.", "Notes": "All students are expected to take the AP exam. Students will receive .5 credit in AP US Government and .5 credit in Personal Finance CP.  *This course is taken in conjunction with English 9 Honors Combined Studies.  It will meet all year for ½ of a block period.", "Description": "The Advanced Placement course in United States Government and Politics is a year-long course designed to give students a critical perspective on politics and government. This course involves both the study of general concepts used to interpret U. S. politics and an examination of the various institutions, groups, beliefs, and ideas that make up the American political system. Students will develop understanding of the typical patterns of political processes and behavior and apply reasoning to assess the causes and consequences of political events. Students will examine, analyze, and interpret basic data relevant to U.S. government and politics. This class will meet the State graduation requirement for one-half credit in U.S. government and prepare the student for the AP examination in United States Government and Politics. Depending on the score received on the AP examination, students can receive college credits; therefore, the course is taught with college-level textbooks and rigor.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"Ancient History":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": " None", "Notes": " None", "Description": "Students will examine the social, geographic, religious, economic, and cultural aspects of major periods of ancient history from prehistoric times to 1500 CE. Students will explore the development of river valley civilizations, the Gupta Empire, the Roman Empire, Classical Greece, Islamic civilizations, American and African civilizations, and the Middle Ages through the beginnings of the Renaissance.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"World History and Geography CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "This course should be taken in the 10th grade; however, some students may opt to take it in the 12th grade.", "Description": "This is a college preparatory course designed to give the student an understanding of the development of civilizations in Asia, Africa, Europe, and the Americas. Content includes selected histories of these areas from earliest times to the present. In addition, political, economic, and cultural interdependence will be emphasized, along with the study of art, architecture, philosophies, and major historical concepts. The course will incorporate geography to enable the student to see, understand, and appreciate the web of relationships between people, places, and environments.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"AP World History Combined Studies":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "For this AP course, students should have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the preceding social studies course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent social studies TCAP assessment.", "Notes": "* This course is a co-requisite of English 10 Honors CS.  It will meet all year for ½ of a block period.", "Description": "The history component of Combined Studies is a team-taught Advanced Placement course for sophomores and students enrolled in the course must also take the English component. An enriched AP World History curriculum is correlated to the world literature presented in the English component to establish an understanding of world cultures that is a necessary foundation for success in future AP courses in both departments. Critical thinking skills and analytical strategies are also emphasized to improve content retention and to enhance writing skills.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"AP United States Government & Politics":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "For this AP course, students should have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the preceding social studies course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent social studies TCAP assessment.", "Notes": "All students are expected to take the AP exam. Students will receive .5 credit in AP US Government and .5 credit in Personal Finance CP", "Description": "The Advanced Placement course in United States Government and Politics is a year-long course designed to give students a critical perspective on politics and government. This course involves both the study of general concepts used to interpret U. S. politics and an examination of the various institutions, groups, beliefs, and ideas that make up the American political system. Students will develop understanding of the typical patterns of political processes and behavior and apply reasoning to assess the causes and consequences of political events. Students will examine, analyze, and interpret basic data relevant to U.S. government and politics. This class will meet the State graduation requirement for one-half credit in U.S. government and prepare the student for the AP examination in United States Government and Politics. Depending on the score received on the AP examination, students can receive college credits; therefore, the course is taught with college-level textbooks and rigor.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"United States History CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course covers US History from Post-Reconstruction to our Present. Areas of focus include The Gilded Age, Progressivism, New Imperialism, the World Wars, the Depression, the Cold War, and Contemporary Issues. Emphasis will also be given to current issues that impact and shape the future of the United States. Our efforts will result in students becoming more knowledgeable and responsible citizens of the United States of America. The course also will require an End of Course Exam at the completion of the class.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"AP United States History":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "For this AP course, students should have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the preceding social studies course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent social studies TCAP assessment. A college textbook will be used and students are required to complete historical outlines, research projects, and supplementary readings. Strong reading and writing skills are required.", "Notes": "None", "Description": "The AP U.S. History course develops students’ understanding of American history from approximately 1491 to the present. Students will investigate U.S. history for significant events, individuals, developments, and processes across historical periods. Students will develop the same thinking skills and methods used by historians:  analysis of primary and secondary sources, contextualization, comparison, causation, continuity and change over time, and argumentation. The course also looks at seven themes:  American and national identity; politics and power; work, exchange, and technology; culture and society; migration and settlement; geography and the environment; and America in the world. Students will explore these themes in order to make connections among historical developments in different times and places in preparation for the AP U. S. History Exam and/or future college-level history courses.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"AP United States History Combined Studies":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "For this AP course, students should have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the preceding social studies course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent social studies TCAP assessment. A college textbook will be used and students are required to complete historical outlines, research projects, and supplementary readings. Strong reading and writing skills are required.", "Notes": "  *This course is a co-requisite with AP English Language and Composition Combined Studies.  It will meet all year for ½ of a block period.", "Description": "The AP U.S. History course develops students’ understanding of American history from approximately 1491 to the present. Students will investigate U.S. history for significant events, individuals, developments, and processes across historical periods. Students will develop the same thinking skills and methods used by historians:  analysis of primary and secondary sources, contextualization, comparison, causation, continuity and change over time, and argumentation. The course also looks at seven themes:  American and national identity; politics and power; work, exchange, and technology; culture and society; migration and settlement; geography and the environment; and America in the world. Students will explore these themes in order to make connections among historical developments in different times and places in preparation for the AP U. S. History Exam and/or future college-level history courses.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"Personal Finance CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Term"], "Credits": [".5"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "This course is usually taken in conjunction with economics CP in the junior or senior year.  Students who register for this course must select another term course to partner with this one.", "Description": "Personal Finance is designed to provide students with a practical study of how individual choices directly influence occupational goals and future earnings potential. Real world topics covered will include income, money management, spending and credit, as well as saving and investing. Students will design personal and household budgets, simulate use of checking and savings accounts, demonstrate knowledge of finance, debt, and credit management, and evaluate and understand insurance and taxes. There will also be an emphasis placed upon current events to ensure that students are familiar with important global and domestic economic issues.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"Economics CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Term"], "Credits": [".5"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": " This course is usually taken in conjunction with Personal Finance in the junior or senior year.  Students who register for this course must select another term course to partner with this one.", "Description": "This course is a study of the market economy and the free enterprise system. Emphasis will be placed on the role of government and the individual in the system. Economic systems, supply and demand, business cycles, money and banking, labor, government intervention in the economy, and international economics are some of the topics that are covered. Lecture, small group work, stock market simulations, and various projects will be used to master the United States economic system.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"AP Microeconomics/ AP Macroeconomics":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "For this AP course, students should have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the preceding social studies course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent social studies TCAP assessment.", "Notes": "This class will meet the State graduation requirement for economics and prepare the student for both the Microeconomics and Macroeconomics AP Exams. This course is designed for the accelerated student whose reading, writing, and thinking skills are well developed.  Students who earn a 3, 4, or 5 on both AP Exams may earn the equivalent of 6 hours of credit for Economics 211 at UT Knoxville.", "Description": "AP Microeconomics allows the student an opportunity to experience a college-level course and earn 3 hours of college credit while fulfilling the graduation requirement for economics instruction at ORHS. Micro examines the basic concepts of economics, supply and demand issues, marginal benefit analysis, and market structures. The student will build a stock market portfolio, create a business, and apply many microeconomic concepts into current economic conditions. AP Macroeconomics is a study of our world today and an examination of current economic issues.  This course is for the student who is interested in the political system, environmental concerns, the financial power of our government and the Federal Reserve System. Students will examine the role of government, the Federal Reserve System, the Stock Market, global economics, and the decisions of the all- important consumer. Current economic events and economic indicators are analyzed and applied to master the theory of Macroeconomics.  Students are expected to take the AP Microeconomics and the AP Macroeconomics exams.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"AP European History":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "For this AP course, students should have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the preceding social studies course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent social studies TCAP assessment.", "Notes": "This course will satisfy the graduation requirement for World History and Geography. Students taking this course will be prepared to take the AP Exam and should have an above average reading level. They may earn 3 hours of college credit by successfully completing the AP Exam.  All students are expected to take the AP Exam.", "Description": "AP European History focuses on developing students’ abilities to think conceptually about European history from approximately 1450 to the present and apply historical thinking skills as they learn about the past. The development of modern Europe is addressed through the social, political, religious, intellectual, technological, and economic histories of the various peoples and nations of Europe and their interactions with the wider world. In addition to the reading, writing, and discussion activities characteristic of an AP humanities course, students will have opportunities to explore areas of particular interest through projects of their own design to connect European history to their other areas of academic and cultural interest. This course is designed to be the equivalent of a two-semester introductory college or university European history course and will prepare students for the AP exam.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
"AP Human Geography":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "For this AP course, students should have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the preceding social studies course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent social studies TCAP assessment.", "Notes": "This course will satisfy the graduation requirement for World History and Geography. Students taking this course will be prepared to take the AP Exam and should have", "Description": "AP Human Geography is a year-long course designed for juniors and seniors. This college-level introductory course will study patterns and processes that have shaped human understanding, use, and alteration of Earth’s surface. This course uses spatial concepts and analysis of landscapes to understand human geography and the consequences on our environment. The course topics include: Geography, Population, Cultural Patterns and Processes, Political Organization of Space, Agriculture and Rural Land Use, Industrialization and Economic Development, Cities and Urban Land Use.", "Subject": ["Social Studies"]},
