"NIC STEM I Foundations":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None. We encourage students to start progressing through the first levels of the STEM Foundations and Applications course sequence wherever they are comfortable skill-wise, and when ready, ramp up through the i-School series of courses beginning at i-School STEM 1 Foundations.", "Notes": "This is an introductory course to the Advanced STEM Applications pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. Certifications: Autodesk certifications and OSHA-10.", "Description": "STEM I: Foundations is a foundational course in the STEM cluster for students interested in learning more about careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. This course covers basic skills required for STEM fields of study. Upon completion of this course, proficient students can identify and explain the steps in both the engineering design and the scientific inquiry processes. They conduct research to develop meaningful questions, define simple problem scenarios and scientific investigations, develop fundamental design solutions, conduct basic mathematical modeling and data analysis, and effectively communicate solutions and scientific explanations to others. This course aligns with the programs of study that have been taught in Oak Ridge Schools with Project Lead the Way and Engineering by Design curricula.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"NIC STEM II Applications":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "STEM I Foundations.  We encourage students to start progressing through the first levels of the STEM Foundations and Applications course sequence wherever they are comfortable skill-wise, and when ready, ramp up through the i-School series of courses beginning at i-School STEM 1 Foundations.", "Notes": "This is the second course in the Advanced STEM pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. Certifications: Autodesk certifications, OSHA-10, Snap-on Precision Measurement Instruments (PMI)", "Description": "STEM II: Applications is a project-based learning experience for students who wish to further explore the dynamic range of STEM fields introduced in STEM I: Foundations. Building on the content and critical thinking frameworks of STEM I, this course asks students to apply the scientific inquiry and engineering design processes to a course-long project selected by the instructor with the help of student input. Instructors design a project in one of two broad pathways (traditional sciences or engineering) that reflects the interest of the class as a whole; the students then apply the steps of the scientific inquiry or the engineering design process throughout the course to ask questions, test hypotheses, model solutions, and communicate results. In some cases, instructors may be able to design hybrid projects that employ elements of both the scientific inquiry and the engineering design process. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will have a thorough understanding of how scientists and engineers research problems and methodically apply STEM knowledge and skills; and they will be able to present and defend a scientific explanation and/or an engineering design solution to comprehensive STEM-related scenarios. This course aligns with the programs of study that have been taught in Oak Ridge Schools with Project Lead the Way and Engineering by Design curricula.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"NIC Advanced STEM III":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "STEM II Applications.", "Notes": "This is the second course in the Advanced STEM pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. Certifications: Autodesk certifications, OSHA-10, Snap-on Precision Measurement Instruments (PMI)", "Description": "Advanced STEM III is a project-based learning experience for students who wish to further explore the dynamic range of STEM fields introduced in STEM II: Applications. Building on the content and critical thinking frameworks of STEM II, this course asks students to apply the scientific inquiry and engineering design processes learned in the previous courses to a more advanced course-long project selected by the instructor with the help of student input. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will have a thorough understanding of how scientists and engineers research problems and methodically apply STEM knowledge and skills; and they will be able to present and defend a scientific explanation and/or an engineering design solution to comprehensive STEM-related scenarios.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"i-School NIC STEM I: Digital Design & Manufacturing I":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None.", "Notes": "This is an introductory course to the i-School Advanced STEM Applications pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. Certifications: Autodesk Fusion 360, Registered Scrum Master, OSHA-10, Snap-on Precision Measurement Instruments (PMI).  It is recommended that students interested in this pathway take Algebra I Advanced or higher level mathematics in the 9th grade.", "Description": "i-School STEM I: Digital Design & Manufacturing 1 This is the foundations class for this i-School program of studies and is required for all other i-School classes.   It is a hands-on, project- based, team-based, introduction to the product/engineering design process, including: 1) understanding/defining the need (problem-to-solve/jobs-to-be-done recognition), 2) ideation/brainstorming (design sprints), 3) design using computer aided design (CAD), computer aided manufacturing (CAM), and computer aided engineering (CAE), 4) build/prototype using 3D printers (Fused Filament, SLA, SLS), CO2 lasers, CNC desktop mills, 5) testing/evaluation and 5) iteration.   The class will incorporate Scrum and Scrum@Scale as an Agile engineering/project management framework (including an opportunity to take the Scrum Inc Registered Scrum Master Exam) as well as essential critical thinking and problem-solving skills.  Opportunities to earn professional certifications: Registered Scrum Master, Autodesk CAD/CAM, Ultimaker , Formlabs, OSHA, ...", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"i-School NIC STEM II Digital Design and Manufacturing II":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "i-School STEM I and/or teacher recommendation.", "Notes": "This is a second course in the i-School Advanced STEM Applications pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. Certifications: Autodesk, Fusion 360, Registered Scrum Master, Scrum@Scale Practitioner, OSHA-10, and Snap-on Precision Measurement Instruments (PMI)", "Description": "II Unit A (Metal CNC Mill/Lathe Fiber Laser/WaterJET) This is a hands-on, project-based, team-based, deep dive into digital manufacturing of metal parts/products using CAD/CAM/CAE and computer numerically controlled (CNC) mills and lathes.  Opportunities to earn professional certifications: Titans of CNC Academy, Hass, WARDJet...  It for students who wish to further explore the dynamic range of STEM fields like machinists, product design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, aerospace engineering, robotics, and digital design and manufacturing introduced in i-School STEM I: Digital Design & Manufacturing 1. II Unit B (Wood CNC Mill CO2 Laser) A hands-on, project-based, team-based, deep dive into digital manufacturing of wood parts/products (cabinetry, furniture, signs, toys, instruments, art, etc.) using CAD/CAM/CAE and computer numerically controlled (CNC) mills and CO2 laser. Opportunities to earn professional certifications: Autodesk, ... It for students who wish to further explore the dynamic range of STEM fields in construction, cabinetry, sign and toy product design and manufacturing, introduced in i-School STEM I: Digital Design & Manufacturing 1. II Unit C (Composites, Carbon-Fiber/Nylon 3D Printers, Injection Modeling, WaterJET) This is a hands-on, project-based, team-based, deep dive into digital manufacturing of composite parts/products using CAD/CAM/CAE and composite molds/lay-ups, Carbon-Fiber/Nylon SLS 3D Printers, Injection Modeling and WaterJET.  Opportunities to earn professional certifications: Autodesk, WARDJet, Markforged University, Formlabs... It is for students who wish to further explore the dynamic range of STEM fields like biomedical engineering, new product design and manufacturing, mechanical engineering, aerospace engineering, robotics, and digital design and manufacturing introduced in i-School STEM I: Digital Design & Manufacturing 1.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"i-School DE Advanced STEM Digital Manufacturing":{ "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semesters"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "i-School STEM I, i-School STEM II and other relevant courses from any of our CCTE Academies with a teacher recommendation.  Students must successfully complete an interview process to become “employees” of Wildcat Manufacturing.", "Notes": "This is the third and fourth course in the i-School Advanced STEM Applications pathway. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. Certifications: Autodesk Fusion 360, OSHA-10, Registered Scrum Product Owner, Snap-on Precision Measurement Instruments (PMI).", "Description": "i-School DE Advanced STEM Digital Manufacturing This is for students interested in an advanced, fast-paced, Dual-Enrolment level course in hands-on, project-based, team-based, design and manufacturing of robots and robotic systems.  We will design (using Fusion360) and manufacture (CNC) complex robotics components/systems (including the ORHS FIRST Robotics Team's competition robot).  We will explore multiple CNC work-holding and fabrication techniques. Students will design and manufacture real products for local partners like, ORT-E, TTE, and GEM Technologies Inc. and anyone else we can help.  Students will be developing a student-run business where all aspects of the business from design, cost, estimation, planning, manufacturing, delivery and billing. The proceeds will be used to sustain the program, purchase materials, provide machine maintenance and upgrades. We will be piloting content from the University of Tennessee's Machine Tool Research Center's SEAMTN/ACE programs.  The class will incorporate agile and lean work practices through Lean Startup, Wicked-Problem Solving, Set-Based Concurrent Design/Engineering, CAE/CAD/CAM, finite element analysis, generative design, and Titans of CNC Academy. Opportunities to earn professional certifications include Scrum Product Owner, Scrum@Scale Practitinoer, and AutoDESK Certificates. Students will have full access to i-School Design and Manufacturing Center including Hass, Tormach & Laguna CNCs, Fiber Laser, WaterJet, WARDJet, and industrial 3D printers. The dual enrollment courses with Roane State Community College offered through i-School include concepts of STEM in Context with a STEM Practicum. These are applied courses in the STEM career cluster which allow students to work in groups to solve a problem or answer a scientific question drawn from real-world scenarios within their schools or communities. This course builds on i-School STEM I: Digital Design & Manufacturing 1 and i-School STEM IIA, B, or C: Applications by applying scientific and engineering knowledge and skills to team projects. These DE courses with RSCC are capstone courses intended to provide students with the opportunity to apply the skills and knowledge learned in previous STEM Education courses within a professional, working environment. In addition to developing an understanding of the professional and ethical issues encountered by STEM professionals in the workplace, students learn to refine their skills in problem solving, research, communication, data analysis, teamwork, and project management. The course is highly customizable to meet local system needs: instruction may be delivered through school laboratory training or through work-based learning arrangements such as internships, cooperative education, service learning, mentoring, and job shadowing. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be able to effectively use skills such as project management, team communication, leadership, and decision making. They will also be able to effectively transfer the teamwork skills from the classroom to a postsecondary and/or work setting.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"BioSTEM I Honors":{ "GPA": "0.5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Student must be enrolled in or has successfully completed Biology.", "Notes": "This course satisfies one of three credits required for an elective focus when taken in conjunction with other BioSTEM courses. This course satisfies the third science graduation requirement, and it may be used toward a Math/Science, BioSTEM, or CTE area of focus. A $10 lab fee is requested.", "Description": "BioSTEM I is a foundational course in the STEM cluster for students interested in learning more about careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics with emphasis in biotechnology. This course covers basic skills required for BioSTEM fields of study. Upon completion of this course, proficient students are able to identify and explain the steps in both the engineering design and the scientific inquiry process. Students conduct research to develop meaningful questions, define simple problem scenarios and scientific investigations, develop fundamental design solutions, conduct basic mathematical modeling and data analysis, and effectively communicate solutions and scientific explanation to others.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"BioSTEM II Honors":{ "GPA": "0.5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "BioSTEM I and teacher recommendation.", "Notes": "This course satisfies one of three credits required for an elective focus when taken in conjunction with other BioSTEM courses. This course satisfies the third science graduation requirement, and it may be used toward a Math/Science, BioSTEM, or CTE area of focus. A $10 lab fee is requested.", "Description": "BioSTEM II is a project-based learning experience for students who wish to further explore the dynamic range of BioSTEM fields introduced in BioSTEM I. Building on the content and critical thinking frameworks of BioSTEM I, this course asks students to apply the scientific inquiry and engineering design processes to a course-long project selected by the instructor with the help of student input. Instructors design a project in one of the BioSTEM fields of medical laboratory science, research science, food science, forensic science or environmental science that reflects the interest of the class as a whole; the students then apply the steps of the scientific inquiry process throughout the course to ask questions, test hypotheses, model solutions, and communicate results. In some cases, instructors may be able to design hybrid projects that employ elements of several of the BioSTEM fields. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will have a thorough understanding of how scientists research problems and methodically apply BioSTEM knowledge and skills; and they will be able to present and defend a scientific explanation to comprehensive BioSTEM scenarios.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"BioSTEM III Honors":{ "GPA": "0.5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "BioSTEM II", "Notes": "Coming soon! This course satisfies one of three credits required for an elective focus when taken in conjunction with other BioSTEM courses. This course satisfies the third science graduation requirement, and it may be used toward a Math/Science, BioSTEM, or CTE area of focus.", "Description": "BioSTEM III is an applied course in the STEM career cluster which allows students to work in groups to solve a problem or answer a scientific question drawn from real-world scenarios within their schools or communities. This course builds on BioSTEM I and BioSTEM II by applying scientific knowledge and skills to a team project. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be able to effectively use skills such as project management, team communication, leadership, and decision making. They will also be able to effectively transfer the teamwork skills from the classroom to a work setting.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
"BioSTEM Practicum":{ "GPA": "0.5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "BioSTEM III", "Notes": " Coming soon!", "Description": "BioSTEM Practicum is the fourth course in the STEM cluster for students interested in learning more about careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics with emphasis in Biotechnology. This course provides opportunity for students to use skills and content learned during the first three courses in a real world university or industry lab setting. Upon completion of this course, proficient students are able to identify, explain, and execute lab-based research utilizing the scientific inquiry processes. They will conduct research to develop meaningful questions, define simple problem scenarios and scientific investigations, develop fundamental design solutions, conduct basic mathematical modeling and data analysis, and effectively communicate solutions and scientific explanations to others. Students also will gain knowledge in how a biotechnology business works. Note: For clarity, some standards include example applications to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Teachers are encouraged to align instruction to one or more of these areas, depending on area of expertise and student interest.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
