"French 1 CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "None", "Description": "French I is an entry-level course designed for students who are new to the study of French or for students with limited proficiency in prior language study. The main focus of the course is on the development of communication proficiency in the target language. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by the textbook. There is an emphasis in the use of technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"French 2 CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "French 1", "Notes": "None", "Description": "In this course, students will continue to develop an understanding and appreciation of other cultures as they learn the target language. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by the textbook. There is a great emphasis in the use of technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"French 2 Honors":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "French 1", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course is designed for students who plan to pursue advanced levels of language studies. Students who have outstanding achievement in Level 1 are encouraged to enroll in this course. This class includes all the elements found in Level 2 CP while emphasizing critical thinking and independent research. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by the textbook. There is a great emphasis in the use of technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"French 3 Honors":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "French 2 or French 2 Honors", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course is designed for students who plan to pursue advanced levels of language studies. Students who have outstanding achievement in level 2 or level 2 Honors are encouraged to enroll in this course. Students will continue to develop an understanding and appreciation of other cultures as they learn the target language, while emphasizing critical thinking skills and independent research. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, art, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by the textbook. There is a great emphasis in the use of technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"French 4 Honors":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "French 3 Honors and teacher recommendation", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course is designed to encourage students to interact in a global community. Communication is the emphasis along with vocabulary expansion within the six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. Students will improve fluency and grammatical accuracy by using the three modes of communication: Interpersonal (speaking, listening, and writing), Presentational (speaking and writing), and Interpretative (reading and listening). Materials include authentic sources such as cultural and historical readings, short stories, poetry, music, art, websites, and films in order to maximize communication in real-life situations and gain cultural understanding. Classes are conducted entirely in French and students are expected to speak only in the target language. In addition, students are highly encouraged to seek out opportunities to use the target language outside the classroom.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"French 5 Honors with DE option":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "French 3 Honors; 3.0 GPA; 19 in Reading and an 18 in English on the ACT; students also must be in their junior/senior year and have a teacher recommendation", "Notes": "Students must register for French 5 Honors.  Students must be dually enrolled at RSCC in order to benefit from the DE grading scale.", "Description": "Dual Enrollment provides the option of earning Beginning French 1 and 2 credit through Roane State Community College. This course is designed to encourage students to interact in a global community. Communication is the emphasis along with vocabulary expansion within the six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. Students will improve fluency and grammatical accuracy by using the three modes of communication: Interpersonal (speaking, listening, and writing), Presentational (speaking and writing), and Interpretative (reading and listening). Materials include authentic sources such as cultural and historical readings, short stories, poetry, music, art, websites, and films in order to maximize communication in real-life situations and gain cultural understanding. Classes are conducted entirely in French and students are expected to speak only in the target language. In addition, students are highly encouraged to seek out opportunities to use the target language outside the classroom.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"AP French Language":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "French 4 Honors or DE French and teacher recommendation", "Notes": "If the student does not participate in the culminating exam by the end of the school year in which the course was completed (Advanced Placement exam), the grading scale would revert to the honors scale.", "Description": "This course is designed to prepare students to interact in a global community. Communication is the emphasis along with vocabulary expansion within the six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. Students will refine fluency and grammatical accuracy by using the three modes of communication: Interpersonal (speaking, listening, and writing), Presentational (speaking and writing), and Interpretative (reading and listening). Materials include authentic sources such as radio talk shows, news articles, emails, and music from French-speaking countries in order to maximize communication in real-life situations and gain cultural understanding. Classes are conducted entirely in French and students are expected to speak only French in class. In addition, students are also encouraged to seek opportunities to use the target language outside of the classroom. In preparation for the AP Exam in French Language and Culture, students will be taught specific test-taking strategies and will practice for the exam.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"German 1 CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "None", "Description": "German I is an entry-level course designed for students with no previous German courses in the target language. The main focus of the course is on the development of communication proficiency in German. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and will be supplemented by a textbook. German 1 CP uses technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"German 2 CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "German 1", "Notes": "None", "Description": "In this course, students will continue to develop an understanding and appreciation of other cultures as they learn the target language. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by a textbook. German 2 CP uses technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"German 2 Honors":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "German 1 and recommendation by teacher", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course is designed for students who plan to pursue advanced levels of German studies. Students who have outstanding achievement in German 1 are encouraged to enroll in this course. This class includes all the elements found in CP German 2 while emphasizing critical thinking and independent research. Students will conduct theme specific projects. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by a textbook. German 2 Honors uses technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"German 3 Honors":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "German 2 and recommendation by teacher or German 2 Honors", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course is designed for students who plan to pursue advanced levels of language studies. Students who have outstanding achievement in level 2 or level 2 Honors are encouraged to enroll in this course. Students will continue to develop an understanding and appreciation of other cultures as they learn the target language, while emphasizing critical thinking skills and independent research. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by a textbook. German 3 Honors uses technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"German 4 Honors":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "German 3 Honors or recommendation by teacher", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course is designed to encourage students to interact in a global community. Communication is the emphasis along with vocabulary expansion of the 6 cultural themes: Science and Technology, Contemporary Life, and Personal and Public Identity, Family and Communities, Global Challenges, and Beauty and Aesthetics. Students will improve fluency and grammatical accuracy by using the three modes of communication: Interpersonal (speaking, listening, and writing), Presentational (speaking and writing), and Interpretative (reading and listening). Materials include authentic sources such as cultural and historical readings, short stories, poetry, music, art, websites, and films in order to maximize communication in real-life situations and gain cultural understanding. Classes are conducted entirely in German and students are expected to speak only in the target language. Students will be introduced and practice skills to accomplish tasks specific for the AP level.  In addition, students are highly encouraged to seek out opportunities to use the target language outside the classroom.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"AP German Language":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "German 4 Honors German", "Notes": "If the student does not participate in the culminating exam by the end of the school year in which the course was completed (Advanced Placement exam), the grading scale would revert to the honors scale.", "Description": "This course is designed to encourage students to interact in a global community. Communication is the emphasis along with vocabulary expansion within the six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. Students will improve fluency and grammatical accuracy by using the three modes of communication: Interpersonal (speaking, listening, and writing), Presentational (speaking and writing), and Interpretative (reading and listening). Materials include authentic sources such as cultural and historical readings, short stories, poetry, music, art, websites, and films in order to maximize communication in real-life situations and gain cultural understanding. Classes are conducted entirely in German and students are expected to speak only German in class. In addition, students are also encouraged to seek opportunities to use the target language outside of the classroom. In preparation for the AP Exam in German Language and Culture, students will be taught specific test-taking strategies and will practice for the exam.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"Spanish 1 CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "none", "Notes": "*Students repeating Span 1 should be enrolled in 503020 in the fall semester.", "Description": "Spanish I is an entry-level course designed for students with no previous language study or for students with limited proficiency in prior elementary, middle school, or Spanish 1 courses. The main focus of the course is on the development of communication proficiency in the target language. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by a textbook. There is an emphasis in the use of technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"Spanish 2 CP":{ "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Spanish 1", "Notes": "*Students repeating Span 2 should be enrolled in 503023 in the spring semester.", "Description": "In this course, students will continue to develop an understanding and appreciation of other cultures as they learn the target language. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by the textbook. There is a great emphasis in the use of technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"Spanish 2 Honors":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Spanish 1", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course is designed for students who plan to pursue advanced levels of language studies. Students who have outstanding achievement in Level 1 are encouraged to enroll in this course. This class includes all the elements found in Level 2 CP while emphasizing critical thinking and independent research. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by the textbook. There is a great emphasis in the use of technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"Spanish 3 Honors":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Spanish 2 or Spanish 2 Honors", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course is designed for students who plan to pursue advanced levels of language studies. Students who have outstanding achievement in level 2 or level 2 Honors are encouraged to enroll in this course. Students will continue to develop an understanding and appreciation of other cultures as they learn the target language, while emphasizing critical thinking skills and independent research. Grammatical concepts and vocabulary will be taught in context from within six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. These cultural themes will be explored through authentic sources, such as news articles, video clips, music, literature, etc. and may be supplemented by the textbook.  There is a great emphasis in the use of technology as it provides a venue for students to enhance their speaking and listening comprehension.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"Spanish 4 Honors with DE option":{ "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Spanish 3 Honors; 3.0 GPA with a 19 in Reading on the ACT.", "Notes": "Student should register for Spanish 4 Honors.  If the student is not dually enrolled at RSCC, the grading scale would revert to the honors scale.", "Description": "Dual Enrollment provides the option of earning Beginning Spanish 1 and 2 credit through Roane State Community College. This course is designed to encourage students to interact in a global community. Communication is the emphasis along with vocabulary expansion within the six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. Students will improve fluency and grammatical accuracy by using the three modes of communication: Interpersonal (speaking and writing), Presentational (speaking and writing), and Interpretative (reading and listening). Materials include authentic sources such as cultural and historical readings, short stories, poetry, music, art, websites, and films in order to maximize communication in real-life situations and gain cultural understanding. Classes are conducted entirely in Spanish and students are expected to speak only Spanish in class. In addition, students are also encouraged to seek opportunities to use the target language outside of the classroom.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"AP Spanish Language and Culture":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "DE Spanish 4/Spanish 4 Honors", "Notes": " If the student does not participate in the culminating exam by the end of the school year in which the course was completed (Advanced Placement exam) then the grading scale would revert to the honors scale.", "Description": "This course is designed to prepare students to interact in a global community. Communication is the emphasis along with vocabulary expansion within the six cultural themes: Family and Communities, Science and Technology, World Challenges, Beauty and Aesthetics, Personal and Public Identities, and Contemporary Life. Students will refine fluency and grammatical accuracy by using the three modes of communication: Interpersonal (speaking, listening, and writing), Presentational (speaking and writing), and Interpretative (reading and listening). Materials include authentic sources such as radio talk shows, news articles, emails, and music from Spanish-speaking countries to maximize communication in real-life situations and gain cultural understanding. Classes are conducted entirely in Spanish and students are expected to speak only Spanish in class. In addition, students are also encouraged to seek opportunities to use the target language outside of the classroom. In preparation for the AP Exam in Spanish Language and Culture, students will be taught specific test-taking strategies and will practice for the exam.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
"AP Spanish Literature and Culture ":{ "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "DE Spanish 4/Spanish 4 Honors", "Notes": " If the student does not participate in the culminating exam by the end of the school year in which the course was completed (Advanced Placement exam) then the grading scale would revert to the honors scale.", "Description": "This course is designed to provide students with a learning experience equivalent to that of a college/university survey course in literature written in Spanish. The course provides opportunities for students to demonstrate their proficiency across the three modes of communication: Interpersonal (speaking and writing), Presentational (speaking and writing), and Interpretative (reading and listening). Students are introduced to the formal study of a representative body of texts from Peninsular Spanish, Latin American and U.S. Hispanic literature, including short stories, novels, poetry, drama, and essays. The goal is for students to read critically, think deeply, and write analytically to demonstrate their understanding of the representative texts and to apply what they have learned from the required texts to others. The course will be enhanced by the inclusion of works of art, music, and film to encourage exploration from multiple points of view. In preparation for the AP Exam in Spanish Literature and Culture, students will be taught specific test-taking strategies and will practice for the exam.", "Subject": ["World Languages"]},
