NIC Welding I	S,T,E,M	605786
GPA Weight: 1	Grading Scale: Honors; NIC if certification attempted	NCAA Approved? No
Length: Semester	Number of Credits: 1.0	Grade Level: 9,10,11,12
Welding I students will learn basics skills and knowledge related to cutting and welding applications. Course content includes safe practices, career research, leadership development, and basic arc welding and thermal cutting skills. Combined with the second and third year courses, Basic Principles of Welding and Welding Applications and Certification, the student should be prepared for Entry Level Welder Certification, as defined by American Welding Society QC10.A written safety test must be passed with 100% before student is allowed to work in the lab. Membership in Skills USA is encouraged. Students will take certification tests for various welding processes and positions. Students who complete the three-course sequence should be prepared for Entry Level Welding Certification, as defined by American Welding Society, QC10.
Pathway Info:	http://tn.gov/education/article/cte-cluster-advanced-manufacturing
Prerequisites:	None.
Counseling Notes:	This is the first course in the Welding path of study. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway.  Welding gloves, safety glasses, and steel-toed leather boots are required for Lab Safety.

NIC Welding II	S,T,E,M	615786
GPA Weight: 1	Grading Scale: Honors; NIC if certification attempted	NCAA Approved? No
Length: Semester	Number of Credits: 1.0	Grade Level: 9,10,11,12
Welding II is a course designed to follow Introduction to Welding, in which students will learn more advanced skills and knowledge related to cutting and welding applications. Development of welding and cutting skills will be continued in the context of a series of projects. Combined with the third course, Advanced Welding applications and Certification, the student should be prepared for Entry Level Welding Certification, as defined by American Welding Society QC10. Students will take certification tests for various welding processes and positions. Students that complete the three-course sequence should be prepared for Entry Level Welding Certification, as defined by American Welding Society, QC10.
Pathway Info:	http://tn.gov/education/article/cte-cluster-advanced-manufacturing
Prerequisites:	Welding I and instructor recommendation
Counseling Notes:	This is the second course in the Welding path of study. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway.  Welding gloves, safety glasses, and steel-toed leather boots are required for Lab Safety.

DE/NIC Welding	S,T,E,M	605787
GPA Weight: 1.0	Grading Scale: Dual Enrollment; Honors if not dually enrolled	NCAA Approved? No
Length: Semester	Number of Credits: 1.0	Grade Level: 11,12
DE Welding is a course designed to teach more advanced techniques and skills related to cutting and welding applications. Welding and cutting skills developed in Welding 1 and Welding 2 will be used to satisfactorily complete a series of industry certification tests. Following the completion of this course, including successful passage defined by American Welding Society QC10.
Pathway Info:	http://tn.gov/education/article/cte-cluster-advanced-manufacturing
Prerequisites:	Welding II and teacher recommendation.
Counseling Notes:	This is the third course in the Welding path of study and may be repeated for additional hours of credit and certification. Students who wish to pursue CCTE concentrator status must take 3 courses in a single pathway. Welding gloves, safety glasses, and steel-toed leather boots are required for Lab Safety. Students will take certification tests for various welding processes and positions. Certification: Entry-Level American Welding Society, QC10. Dual Enrollment is available through Tennessee College of Applied Technology, Knoxville.

