ACT Preparation	S, T, E, M	801000
GPA Weight: 0	Grading Scale: General	NCAA Approved? NA
Length: Term	Number of Credits: .5	Grade Level: 10, 11,12
ACT Prep is designed as an intense preparation for taking the ACT.  Instruction will include a pretest to determine strengths and weaknesses, test taking skills, and practice tests
Prerequisites:	None.
Counseling Notes:	This course is a co-requisite of AVID 11

DE College Success	S, T, E, M	
GPA Weight: 1	Grading Scale: Dual Enrollment	NCAA Approved? NA
Length: Semester	Number of Credits: 1	Grade Level: 12
This course is designed to help students become more efficient, proficient, and self-aware learners. It focuses on research-based learning strategies which can improve student performance in all college courses. The course also includes a career awareness component that can be helpful to all students, particularly those who are undecided about their career goals.  This course introduces a wide range of strategies, techniques, and self-management tools commonly recognized to lead to college success. 
Prerequisites:	None.
Counseling Notes:	This course is a co-requisite of AVID 12

AVID 9, 10, 11, 12	STM	AVID 9: 843081 AVID 10: 853081or 853082AVID 11: 863081or 863082 AVID 12: 873081
GPA Weight: 0	Grading Scale: General	NCAA Approved? NA
Length: Year-long skinny at lunch/ Semester on block	Number of Credits: 1.0	Grade Level: 9, 10, 11, 12
AVID (Advancement via Individual Determination) is a college-readiness system designed to increase the number of students who successfully enroll in college.  AVID's mission is to decrease the opportunity  gap by preparing all students for college readiness and success in a global society. AVID targets students in the academic middle–students with a 2.0 to 3.5 Grade Point Average-who have the desire to go to college and the willingness to work hard. AVID is a regularly scheduled elective class that meets during the school day empowering students to achieve academic excellence. Students in the AVID Elective will receive instruction in writing, inquiry, collaboration, organization, and reading. They will receive academic support from tutors through collaborative group sessions. The AVID Elective will assist students who are motivated to pursue academic excellence through cultural and college field trips, classroom guest speakers, and AVID team building activities.
Prerequisites:	Teacher Recommendation 
Counseling Notes:	AVID is a 4-year commitment,  AVID 9 and AVID 10 are year-long skinny at lunch courses. AVID 11, and 12 are semester courses. Students must also enroll in an honors or higher level course to be in AVID. ACT Prep is a Co-requisite of AVID 11. DE College Success is a co-requisite of AVID 12.

ESL Support 9, 10,11, 12	T	816316816315*
GPA Weight: 0	Grading Scale: General	NCAA Approved? No
Length:  Semester or Year-long skinny at lunch*	Number of Credits: 1.0	Grade Level:  9, 10, 11, 12
This course is designed for students identified as English learners. This course offers explicit instruction in listening, speaking, reading, and writing with emphasis placed on the development of academic language proficiency. Instruction is aligned with both the WIDA Standards and the Tennessee state standards. All English learners participate in WIDA English language assessments which are designed to measure an EL’s social and academic English proficiency. Daily attendance, completion of assigned work, and language practice will make for success in this course. Additionally, this course provides support for English learners in content classes in order to build academic success.
Prerequisites:	Preapproval by the ELL teacher is required based on the TN state ESL regulations.
Counseling Notes:	This course may serve as an elective credit. It may be taken one or two times per academic year as determined by language proficiency assessment scores. *Students may be recommended for this course during the lunch period.

Lunch Study Hall		919305
GPA Weight: 0	Grading Scale: None	NCAA Approved? NA
Length: Year-long skinny at lunch	Number of Credits: None	Grade Level: 9, 10, 11, 12
This is a study hall class supervised by a certified teacher.  Students are expected to use this time to work on homework or other academic pursuits. 
Prerequisites:	None
Counseling Notes:	This course meets during the lunch block.

ROAR	S, T, E, M	823081
GPA Weight: 0	Grading Scale: None	NCAA Approved? NA
Length: Semester	Number of Credits: None	Grade Level: 9, 10, 11,12
This course is by teacher/counselor/ administrator recommendation only and is generally for students working online for credit recovery. 
Prerequisites:	By recommendation only
Counseling Notes:	None

Service Learning	S, T, E, M	906104/ 916104
GPA Weight: 0	Grading Scale: General	NCAA Approved? NA
Length: Term	Number of Credits: .5	Grade Level: 11,12
Students who apply and are selected for this course will be assigned as a teacher’s aide. 
Prerequisites:	Teacher Recommendation, Student Application. See Forms Section.
Counseling Notes:	Students may not take this course more than twice in the same academic year.

Student Council	T,M	949395
GPA Weight: 0	Grading Scale: None	NCAA Approved? N/A
Length: Year-long skinny at lunch	Number of Credits: None	Grade Level: 10,11,12
Student Council class encourages eager students to continue developing leadership skills. We dedicate our time to making a difference through numerous school and community projects. Students interested in this class must invest themselves in planning, organizing and implementing these major events. In order to be a part of this class, students must complete an application and be selected.
Prerequisites:	None
Counseling Notes:	All student council officers are required to be enrolled in this course.  All class officers are encouraged to enroll, as well. This course meets during the lunch block.

Tier 2 Intervention English/ Alg1/Geometry		823082 303080/303081
GPA Weight: 0	Grading Scale: General	NCAA Approved? NA
Length: Year-long skinny at lunch	Number of Credits: .5	Grade Level: 9, 10, 11, 12
These courses provide additional academic support.  Student progress is monitored regularly to determine the necessity for intervention.   Placement is by teacher recommendation only.
Prerequisites:	None
Counseling Notes:	These courses meet during the lunch block.  These courses are universal enhancer electives for students who waive world language and/or fine art.  They can also count toward a math or humanities area of focus.


