"803001":{"name": "English 9 Workshop", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["2.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Year-long on a block"], "Description": "This course is designed for students who have been formally assessed as having serious difficulties in reading and writing. Placement is determined through the RTI committee for Tier III Intervention. Assessments used to determine a student’s area of need include the Gates-MacGinitie Reading Test, EXPLORE, STAR, writing samples, and TNReady scores. The student’s academic difficulties and deficiencies will be assessed and analyzed in order to have a holistic view of the student. Developmental reading skills are taught through various fiction and nonfiction literary selections chosen by the student and/or teacher. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of a multicultural selection of short stories, nonfiction, novels, poetry, and drama. Students practice recognizing ideas, arranging events in sequence, and supporting opinions with examples. The writing responses emphasize organizing for clarity. Writing assignments are designed to improve reading and writing skills and often stress summaries and explanations of the reading. Daily attendance, completion of assigned work, reading practice, and mastery of state standards will make for success in the course.", "Prerequisites": "None", "Counseling Notes": "This course is one year in length and on a block.  Students must complete both semesters in order to meet graduation requirements for English I."},
"813001":{"name": "English 9 CP", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "This course begins a four-year progression of literary analysis in various literary genres. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of a multicultural selection of short stories, nonfiction, novels, poetry, and drama. Students will conduct research, plan and write in expository, argumentative, and narrative modes, and review the fundamental principles of grammar and language.", "Prerequisites": "None", "Counseling Notes": "None"},
"823001 843001":{"name": "English 9 Honors", "GPA": "4.5", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester or Year-long skinny*"], "Description": "This course begins a four-year progression of literary analysis in various literary genres for students with above average reading and writing abilities and/or teacher recommendations. Students taking this course practice rigorous thinking and writing skills necessary for their future success at the Honors/Advanced/AP level and are expected to read and write extensively, often outside of class. Students will also complete an extensive literary research project, plan and write in expository, argumentative, and narrative modes, and review the principles of grammar and language.", "Prerequisites": "None", "Counseling Notes": "None; This course is taught for one semester on a block schedule. *(English 9 Honors A:  843001) is a co-requisite of AVID 9 and meets all year for ½ of the block period."},
"853001":{"name": "English 9 Honors: Combined Studies", "GPA": "4.5", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Year-long skinny on a block*"], "Description": "Combined Studies is a team-taught AP/Honors course in Unites States Government and Politics and literature. This course is designed for students with above-average reading and writing abilities and/or teacher recommendations. Students taking this course practice thinking and writing skills necessary for success in English class and on the paired course Advanced Placement U.S. Government and Politics Exam. Students complete an extensive literary research project and are expected to complete most reading and writing assignments out of class.", "Prerequisites": "English 9", "Counseling Notes": "*This course is taken in conjunction with AP US Government and Politics.  It will meet all year for ½ of a block period."},
"833001":{"name": "English 10 Workshop", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["2.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Year-long on a block"], "Description": "This course is designed for students who have been formally assessed as having serious difficulties in reading and writing. Placement is determined through the RTI committee for Tier III Intervention. Assessments used to determine a student’s area of need include the Gates-MacGinitie Reading Test, Aimsweb, STAR, writing samples, and TNReady scores. The student’s academic difficulties and deficiencies will be assessed and analyzed in order to have a holistic view of the student.  Developmental reading skills are taught through various fiction and nonfiction literary selections chosen by the student and/or teacher. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of a multicultural selection of short stories, nonfiction, novels, poetry, and drama. Students practice recognizing ideas, arranging events in sequence, and supporting opinions with examples. The writing responses emphasize organizing for clarity. Writing assignments are designed to improve reading and writing skills and often stress summaries and explanations of the reading. Daily attendance, completion of assigned work, reading practice, and mastery of state standards will make for success in the course. Literature selections include significant pieces of American Literature.", "Prerequisites": "English 9", "Counseling Notes": "This course is one year in length and on a block.  Students must complete both semesters in order to meet graduation requirements for English II."},
"813002":{"name": "English 10 CP", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "This course continues a four-year progression of literary analysis in various literary genres. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of a multicultural selection of short stories, nonfiction, novels, poetry, and drama. Students will conduct research, plan and write in expository, argumentative, and narrative modes, and review the fundamental principles of grammar and language.", "Prerequisites": "English 9", "Counseling Notes": "None"},
"823002 823003*":{"name": "English 10 Honors", "GPA": "4.5", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester or Year-long skinny on a block*"], "Description": "English 10 Honors is a course in world literature designed for students with above-average reading and writing abilities and/or teacher recommendations. Because this course is preparation for Junior Advanced Placement English Literature and Composition, students taking this course practice rigorous thinking and writing skills necessary for their future success at the AP level and are expected to read and write extensively. Students complete an extensive literary research project and are expected to complete most reading and writing assignments out of class.", "Prerequisites": "English 9", "Counseling Notes": "(English 10 Honors A:  823003) is a co-requisite of AVID 10 and meets all year for ½ of the block"},
"833002":{"name": "English 10 Honors: Combined Studies", "GPA": "4.5", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Year-long skinny on a block*"], "Description": "Combined Studies is a team-taught AP/Honors course in world history and world literature. This course is designed for students with above-average reading and writing abilities and/or teacher recommendations. Students taking this course practice thinking and writing skills necessary for success in English class and on the paired course Advanced Placement World History Exam. Students complete an extensive literary research project and are expected to complete most reading and writing assignments out of class.", "Prerequisites": "English 9", "Counseling Notes": "*This course is taken in conjunction with AP World History.  It will meet all year for ½ of a block period."},
"803003":{"name": "English 11 CP", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "This course continues a four-year progression of literary analysis in various literary genres. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of American Literature. Students will conduct research; plan and write in expository, argumentative, and narrative modes; and review the principles of grammar and language.", "Prerequisites": "English 10", "Counseling Notes": "None"},
"813003":{"name": "English 11 Honors", "GPA": "4.5", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "This advanced course refines literary analysis and writing skills. Students who take this course enroll in postsecondary institutions that range from highly selective schools to state universities and community colleges. Class work includes extensive reading and literary analysis of American literature from the Colonial Era through the present. Students reinforce skills with vocabulary work. Students complete an extensive literary research project and are expected to complete most reading and writing assignments out of class. Many of these students will elect to continue their academic study by taking AP English Literature and Composition.", "Prerequisites": "English 10", "Counseling Notes": "None"},
"853014":{"name": "AP English Language and Composition", "GPA": "5.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "This course is designed for students who want a demanding college level course and/or who plan to take the Advanced Placement Examination in English Language and Composition at the end of the junior year. The course focuses on the elements that define effective argument and composition through the critical analysis and interpretation of complex nonfiction texts.  Students will understand the interactions among a writer’s purpose, audience, subject, and genre and how each of these contributes to effective writing. Students will also enhance their own writing skills and understand better each stage of the writing process as they develop expository, analytical, and argumentative compositions.  Above-average writing skills and self-discipline for independent study are necessary for success in this course.", "Prerequisites": "English 10", "Counseling Notes": "Students are encouraged to take the AP English Language and Composition exam in May of their Junior year."},
"853015":{"name": "AP English Language and Composition: Combined Studies", "GPA": "5.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Year-long skinny on a block*"], "Description": "Combined Studies is comprised of two AP courses:  AP United States History and AP English Language and", "Prerequisites": "http://www.ortn.edu/central-office/teaching-and-learning/curriculum/high-school/", "Counseling Notes": "English 10"},
"853005":{"name": "English 12", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "This course is designed for continued refinement of critical reading skills, literary analysis and writing skills with an emphasis on synthesizing multiple sources. Students who take this course enroll in post-secondary institutions that primarily include community colleges and technical/trade schools. Literary selections range from classic British Literature to contemporary pieces and informational text. Students will also focus on vocabulary acquisition, research and presentation skills, and ACT preparation.  A yearlong Major Theme project is required.", "Prerequisites": "English 11", "Counseling Notes": "None"},
"813005":{"name": "English 12 CP", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "This course continues a four-year progression of literary analysis in various literary genres. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of British Literature. Students will conduct research, plan and write in expository, argumentative, and narrative modes, and review the principles of grammar and language. A research project is required.", "Prerequisites": "English 11", "Counseling Notes": "None"},
"823014":{"name": "AP English Literature and Composition", "GPA": "5.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "This course is designed for students who want a demanding college level course and who plan to take the Advanced Placement Examination in English Literature and Composition at the end of senior year. This course focuses on British and American literature and requires students to write advanced literary analysis and read challenging works that span the Anglo-Saxon to modern eras. Students should expect to spend at least an hour outside of class each day on homework. In addition, a capstone research project focuses on a literary period and two major works of the period. Students should also be aware that issues that might form particular social, historical, or cultural viewpoints be considered controversial, including references to ethnicities, nationalities, religions, races, dialects, gender, or class, may be addressed in tests that are appropriate for the AP English Literature and Composition course. Fair representation of issues and peoples may occasionally include controversial material. Since AP students have chosen a program that directly involves them in college level work, participation in this course depends on a level of maturity consistent with the age of high school students who have engaged in thoughtful analyses of a variety of texts.", "Prerequisites": "English 11", "Counseling Notes": "Students are encouraged to take the AP English Literature exam at the end of the year."},
"803012":{"name": "Creative Writing", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "Prerequisite –Sophomore, junior, or senior students who have a ‘C” grade or higher in their college preparatory English classes. This course is open to any student who is interested in the study and practice of descriptive and narrative writing. Poetry, short stories, children’s stories, personal essays, and scripts provide models for students to discuss and imitate. Students work on finding individual voice, enhancing description, developing characters, improvising with imagery and language, experimenting with different genres and forms, and increasing selfconfidence. Journal writing and peer editing are critical elements of the course. Students are expected to develop and submit some work for publication or competition. With instructor approval, a second half credit may be earned for an additional semester"s work.", "Prerequisites": "English 9", "Counseling Notes": "None"},
"803013":{"name": "Technical Writing", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["1.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Semester"], "Description": "Technical writing is often broadly defined as any writing that takes place in the workplace. To be more specific, it is any writing that is intended to convey information, especially that which is related to scientific or technical information or processes. Students who take this course will be expected to read, analyze, and evaluate a variety of technical literature, in addition to producing their own in multiple formats and on numerous topics. The writing process will be a cornerstone of the course, with added emphasis on the importance of revision and peerediting. By the end of the course, students will be required to produce multiple products of varying lengths, including emails, memos, product and process descriptions, proposals, press releases, user guides, and one long work such as a manual, prospectus, or a white paper.", "Prerequisites": "English 9", "Counseling Notes": "None"},
"873008":{"name": "Journalism I and II- Oak Log", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["2.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Year-long on a block*"], "Description": "Admission to Oak Log requires permission of the adviser, and students must be upperclassmen. Students plan and produce the school yearbook. Students must conduct interviews and write articles. They assist in page design and also compose copy, write headlines and captions, take photographs, and use laptop computers for internet publishing. Students leave campus to sell advertising to help finance the book"s production. Oak Log work requires after-school time. Students must work independently and meet deadlines. Additional credits may be earned for enrollment in consecutive years.  Journalism meets the requirements for an area of focus in humanities.", "Prerequisites": "English 9; Application and approval of instructor", "Counseling Notes": "*Students are encouraged to take this course both semesters.  However, students who only register for one semester must take Journalism in the fall.  The fall semester is a prerequisite for the spring semester."},
"816309, 816310, 816311, 816312":{"name": "English Language Development 9, 10,11, 12", "GPA": "4.0", "Credits": ["2.0"], "Subject": ["English"], "Length": ["Year-long on a block"], "Description": "This course is designed for students identified as English learners. This course offers explicit instruction in listening, speaking, reading, and writing with emphasis placed on the development of academic language proficiency. Instruction is aligned with both the WIDA Standards and the Tennessee state standards. All English learners participate in WIDA English language assessments which are designed to measure an EL’s social and academic English proficiency. Daily attendance, completion of assigned work, and language practice will make for success in this course. Additionally, this course provides support for English learners in content classes in order to build academic success.", "Prerequisites": "Preapproval by the ELL teacher is required based on the TN state ESL regulations.", "Counseling Notes": "This course may serve as either an elective or English credit. It may be taken one or two times per year as determined by language proficiency assessment scores.  This course can also count towards a humanities area of focus."},
