"Early Childhood Education": [
{"Name": "Early Childhood Education Careers I", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Prerequisite: Completion of application, interview by instructor, and instructor recommendation", "Notes": "Requirements: Complete an Early Childhood Education Application (available in the Guidance Office and Early Childhood Education Classroom CS-250) and submit two letters of recommendation. Interviews will be conducted with each student. Applicants must have good attendance, discipline, and academic records. Students need to be focusing on a future career with young children and eager to work one-on-one with preschoolers.", "Description": "Careers in early childhood education include but are not limited to childcare providers, nannies, and preschool teachers. This course studies the foundation of childhood development services, careers, provider responsibilities and aptitudes, and fundamentals of child development. Students will create a course portfolio.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
{"Name": "Early Childhood Education Careers II", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Early Childhood Education Careers I and instructor recommendation", "Notes": "Applicants must have good attendance, discipline, and academic records. Students need to be focusing on a future career with young children and eager to work one-on-one with preschoolers.", "Description": "This is a course for students interested in learning more about becoming an early childhood teacher, nanny, or childcare provider. This course covers the components of curriculum planning, learning, screening and assessing, special populations, and educational technology. Students in this course will observe educators in action, practice specific skills, and add personal work products to a course portfolio.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
{"Name": "DE Early Childhood Education Careers III", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Early Childhood Education Careers II and instructor signature; dual enrollment application and instructor recommendation", "Notes": "Applicants must have good attendance, discipline, and academic records. Students need to be focusing on a future career with young children and eager to work one-on- one with preschoolers. *This course meets all year during the 3rd period lunch block.  Therefore, students will have a 55-minute lunch period during 4th block and then a 35-minute period as a teacher aide during 4th block.  Therefore, this course is a co-requisite of 4th block lunch and 4th block Service Learning.", "Description": "This is an applied knowledge course for students interested in learning more about becoming an early childhood teacher, nanny, or childcare provider. This course encompasses the components of the learning environment, planning age appropriate activities, using activities for learning, and developing communication skills. Students in this course will participate in a work-based learning component of instruction and add work products to a course portfolio.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
{"Name": "Early Childhood Education Careers Work- Based Learning Student Teacher Internships", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "DE Early Childhood Education Careers III", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This is an applied knowledge course for students interested in learning more about becoming an early childhood teacher, nanny, or childcare provider. The course standards cover understanding the components professionalism, policies, regulation, and teaching to learn principles. Students in this course will participate in a work-based learning component of instruction and add work products to a course portfolio. Work-Based Learning (WBL) activities are part of a structured system, open to students that have completed ECEC II. Only juniors or seniors (16 years or older) may participate. WBL activities allow students to apply classroom theories and explore career options at the work site, as well as connect classroom learning to work. Students will be placed in work sites that focus on a career interest. Examples include: Oak Ridge Schools – preschool, elementary, middle schools. Please note that students who participate in the work-based learning program may be subject to alcohol and/or drug testing by the third-party organization/employer. The third-party organization/employer may require parental consent to conduct the testing depending on the student’s age.", "Subject": ["Electives"]},
],
