"English": [
{"Name": "English 9 Workshop", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["2"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "This course is one year in length and on a block.  Students must complete both semesters in order to meet graduation requirements for English I.", "Description": "This course is designed for students who have been formally assessed as having serious difficulties in reading and writing. Placement is determined through the RTI committee for Tier III Intervention. Assessments used to determine a student’s area of need include the Gates-MacGinitie Reading Test, EXPLORE, STAR, writing samples, and TNReady scores. The student’s academic difficulties and deficiencies will be assessed and analyzed in order to have a holistic view of the student. Developmental reading skills are taught through various fiction and nonfiction literary selections chosen by the student and/or teacher. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of a multicultural selection of short stories, nonfiction, novels, poetry, and drama. Students practice recognizing ideas, arranging events in sequence, and supporting opinions with examples. The writing responses emphasize organizing for clarity. Writing assignments are designed to improve reading and writing skills and often stress summaries and explanations of the reading. Daily attendance, completion of assigned work, reading practice, and mastery of state standards will make for success in the course.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "English 9 CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course begins a four-year progression of literary analysis in various literary genres. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of a multicultural selection of short stories, nonfiction, novels, poetry, and drama. Students will conduct research, plan and write in expository, argumentative, and narrative modes, and review the fundamental principles of grammar and language.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "English 9 Honors", "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "To enroll in English 9 Honors, students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in an English 8 Course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment, and students’ reading level should be no more than one grade below grade level.", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course begins a four-year progression of literary analysis in various literary genres for students with above-average reading and writing abilities and/or teacher recommendations. Students taking this course practice rigorous thinking and writing skills necessary for their future success at the Honors/Advanced/AP level and are expected to read and write extensively, often outside of class. Students will also complete an extensive literary research project, plan and write in expository, argumentative, and narrative modes, and review the principles of grammar and language.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "English 9 Honors: Combined Studies", "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "To enroll in English 9 Honors: Combined Studies, students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in an English 8 Course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment, and students’ reading level should be at grade level.", "Notes": "*This course is taken in conjunction with AP US Government and Politics.  It will meet all year for ½ of a block period.", "Description": "Combined Studies is a team-taught AP/Honors course in Unites States Government and Politics and literature. This course is designed for students with above-average reading and writing abilities and/or teacher recommendations. Students taking this course practice thinking and writing skills necessary for success in English class and on the paired course Advanced Placement U.S. Government and Politics Exam. Students complete an extensive literary research project and are expected to complete most reading and writing assignments out of class.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "English 10 Workshop", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["2"], "Prerequisites": "English 9", "Notes": "This course is one year in length and on a block.  Students must complete both semesters in order to meet graduation requirements for English II.", "Description": "This course is designed for students who have been formally assessed as having serious difficulties in reading and writing. Placement is determined through the RTI committee for Tier III Intervention. Assessments used to determine a student’s area of need include the Gates-MacGinitie Reading Test, Aimsweb, STAR, writing samples, and TNReady scores. The student’s academic difficulties and deficiencies will be assessed and analyzed in order to have a holistic view of the student.  Developmental reading skills are taught through various fiction and nonfiction literary selections chosen by the student and/or teacher. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of a multicultural selection of short stories, nonfiction, novels, poetry, and drama. Students practice recognizing ideas, arranging events in sequence, and supporting opinions with examples. The writing responses emphasize organizing for clarity. Writing assignments are designed to improve reading and writing skills and often stress summaries and explanations of the reading. Daily attendance, completion of assigned work, reading practice, and mastery of state standards will make for success in the course. Literature selections include significant pieces of American Literature.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "English 10 CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "English 9", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course continues a four-year progression of literary analysis in various literary genres. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of a multicultural selection of short stories, nonfiction, novels, poetry, and drama. Students will conduct research, plan and write in expository, argumentative, and narrative modes, and review the fundamental principles of grammar and language.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "English 10 Honors", "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "To enroll in English 10 Honors, students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in an English 9 Course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment, and students’ reading level should be no more than one level below grade level.", "Notes": "None", "Description": "English 10 Honors is a course in world literature designed for students with above-average reading and writing abilities and/or teacher recommendations. Because this course is preparation for Junior Advanced Placement English Literature and Composition, students taking this course practice rigorous thinking and writing skills necessary for their future success at the AP level and are expected to read and write extensively. Students complete an extensive literary research project and are expected to complete most reading and writing assignments out of class.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "English 10 Honors: Combined Studies", "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "To enroll in English 10 Honors, students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in an English 9 Course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment, and students’ reading level should be no more than one level below grade level.", "Notes": "*This course is taken in conjunction with AP World History.  It will meet all year for ½ of a block period.", "Description": "Combined Studies is a team-taught AP/Honors course in world history and world literature. This course is designed for students with above-average reading and writing abilities and/or teacher recommendations. Students taking this course practice thinking and writing skills necessary for success in English class and on the paired course Advanced Placement World History Exam. Students complete an extensive literary research project and are expected to complete most reading and writing assignments out of class.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "English 11 CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "English 10", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This course continues a four-year progression of literary analysis in various literary genres. Students develop critical thinking and discussion skills through the study of American Literature. Students will conduct research; plan and write in expository, argumentative, and narrative modes; and review the principles of grammar and language.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "English 11 Honors", "GPA": "0.5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Students who register for this course must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the prerequisite course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment. Students’ reading level should be no more than one grade level below their actual grade level.", "Notes": "None", "Description": "This advanced course refines literary analysis and writing skills. Students who take this course enroll in post-secondary institutions that range from highly selective schools to state universities and community colleges. Class work includes extensive reading and literary analysis of American literature from the Colonial Era through the present. Students reinforce skills with vocabulary work. Students complete an extensive literary research project and are expected to complete most reading and writing assignments out of class. Many of these students will elect to continue their academic study by taking AP English Literature and Composition.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "AP English Language and Composition", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "To enroll in Advanced Placement English 11, students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in an English 10 course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment, and students’ reading level should be at grade level.", "Notes": "Students are encouraged to take the AP English Language and Composition exam in May of their Junior year.", "Description": "This course is designed for students who want a demanding college level course and/or who plan to take the Advanced Placement Examination in English Language and Composition at the end of the junior year. The course focuses on the elements that define effective argument and composition through the critical analysis and interpretation of complex nonfiction texts.  Students will understand the interactions among a writer’s purpose, audience, subject, and genre and how each of these contributes to effective writing. Students will also enhance their own writing skills and understand better each stage of the writing process as they develop expository, analytical, and argumentative compositions.  Above-average writing skills and self-discipline for independent study are necessary for success in this course.", "Subject": ["English"]},
{"Name": "AP English Language and Composition: Combined Studies", "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "To enroll in Advanced Placement English 11, students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in an English 10 course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment, and students’ reading level should be at grade level. Students who do not meet these qualifications may seek an exemption by meeting with their previous English teacher and speaking with their parents.", "Notes": "*This course is taken in conjunction with AP US History.  It will meet all year for ½ of a block period.", "Description": "Combined Studies is comprised of two AP courses:  AP United States History and AP English Language and Composition.  This course is designed for students with above-average reading and writing abilities and/or teacher recommendations. Students taking this course practice thinking and writing skills necessary for success in English class and on the paired course Advanced Placement U.S. History Exam. Students complete an extensive literary research project and are expected to complete most reading and writing assignments out of class.", "Subject": ["English"]},
],
