"Math": [
{"Name": "Algebra A CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Teacher recommendation", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84+ graphing calculator.", "Description": "This course primarily covers linear, quadratic and exponential functions. For these function families, students will use equation solving, graphing, and connections between different representations to analyze contextual problems. Supporting concepts include inequalities, absolute value, polynomials, exponents, radicals and basic statistics. This course is designed to address the first half of the Algebra 1 topics.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Algebra B CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra A CP, teacher recommendation", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84+ graphing calculator.", "Description": "This course primarily covers linear, quadratic and exponential functions. For these function families, students will use equation solving, graphing, and connections between different representations to analyze contextual problems. Supporting concepts include inequalities, absolute value, polynomials, exponents, radicals and basic statistics. This course is designed to address all of the Algebra 1 topics. Students are required to take the TNReady end-of-course Exam with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Algebra 1 A/B CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Yearlong"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Teacher recommendation", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84+ graphing calculator. *331024 is a co-requisite of 333102. They must be taken in the same year.", "Description": "This course primarily covers linear, quadratic and exponential functions. For these function families, students will use equation solving, graphing, and connections between different representations to analyze contextual problems. Supporting concepts include inequalities, absolute value, polynomials, exponents, radicals and basic statistics. This course is designed to address all of the Algebra 1 topics. Students are required to take the TNReady end-of-course Exam with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Algebra 1 CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84+ graphing calculator.", "Description": "This course primarily covers linear, quadratic and exponential functions. For these function families, students will use equation solving, graphing, and connections between different representations to analyze contextual problems. Supporting concepts include inequalities, absolute value, polynomials, exponents, and basic statistics. This course is designed to address all Algebra 1 topics. Students are required to take the TNReady end-of-course Exam with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Algebra 1 Advanced*", "GPA": "0.25", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["2"], "Prerequisites": "Open to students who have successfully mastered computational skills and are able to reason abstractly. These students would not be current honors students, but are capable of rigorous mathematics and motivated to reach an AP mathematics course by their senior year.", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84 calculator. *The first semester is a Math Elective Credit with the Algebra 1 credit applied to the second semester.", "Description": "This course primarily covers linear, quadratic and exponential functions. For these function families, students will use equation solving, graphing, and connections between different representations to analyze contextual problems. Supporting concepts include inequalities, absolute value, polynomials, exponents, and basic statistics. This course is designed to address all Algebra 1 topics. Students are required to take the TNReady end-of-course Exam with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Geometry A CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 1, teacher recommendation", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84 calculator.", "Description": "This is a course in Euclidean Geometry. The primary emphasis is on the development of deductive reasoning and analytical problem-solving skills utilizing the relationships between geometric figures and their properties.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Geometry B CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 1, Geometry A CP, teacher recommendation", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84 calculator.", "Description": "This is a course in Euclidean Geometry. The primary emphasis is on the development of deductive reasoning and analytical problem solving skills utilizing the relationships between geometric figures and their properties. Students are required to take the TNReady end-of-course Exam with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Geometry A/B CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 1, Geometry A CP, teacher recommendation", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84 calculator. *331083 is a co-requisite of 341083.  They must both be taken in the same year.", "Description": "This is a course in Euclidean Geometry. The primary emphasis is on the development of deductive reasoning and analytical problem solving skills utilizing the relationships between geometric figures and their properties. Students are required to take the TNReady end-of-course Exam with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Geometry CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 1", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84 calculator.", "Description": "This is a course in Euclidean Geometry. The primary emphasis is on the development of deductive reasoning and analytical problem-solving skills utilizing the relationships between geometric figures and their properties. This course contains the full scope and sequence of the Geometry curriculum. Students are required to take the TNReady end-of-course Exam with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Geometry Advanced", "GPA": "0.25", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 1 Advanced", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84 calculator.", "Description": "This is a course in Euclidean Geometry. The primary emphasis is on the development of deductive reasoning and analytical problem-solving skills utilizing the relationships between geometric figures and their properties. This course contains the full scope and sequence of the Geometry curriculum. Students are required to take the TNReady end-of-course Exam with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Geometry Honors", "GPA": "0.5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 1Honors or Algebra 1 Advanced", "Notes": "This course requires a TI-84 calculator.", "Description": "This is a comprehensive course in Euclidean Geometry, which covers plane, solid, and analytic geometry concepts. Honors Geometry involves theoretical and analytical proofs, as well as applications in transformational geometry. This course includes all topics of Geometry and additional topics in Trigonometry at a depth considered appropriate preparation for Algebra 2 Trig Honors. Students are required to take the TNReady end-of-course Exam with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course. Students enrolling in this course must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the prerequisite course.  Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment. Have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the prerequisite course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Algebra 2 CP", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 1 and Geometry", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-84 Graphing Calculator.", "Description": "This course includes all the topics of Algebra 2 at a depth. Students are required to take the TNReady End-of-Course Exam in Algebra 2 with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course. Junior and Senior Algebra 2 students making unsatisfactory progress toward earning this required State credit will be assigned to Algebra 2 Core Focus Intervention.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Algebra 2 Advanced", "GPA": "0.25", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 1 and Geometry", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-84 Graphing Calculator.", "Description": "This course includes all the topics of Algebra 2 and additional topics in Trigonometry at a depth considered appropriate preparation for Pre-calculus AB SWDC. Students are required to take the TNReady End-of-Course Exam in Algebra 2 with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Algebra 2 Trigonometry Honors", "GPA": "0.5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 1 and Geometry, Honors", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-84 Graphing Calculator.", "Description": "This course includes all the topics of Algebra 2 and additional topics in Trigonometry at a depth considered appropriate preparation for Pre-calculus BC SWDC.  A technology laboratory consisting of approximately 1.5 hours (outside of class) per nine weeks period is encouraged to increase proficiency on the graphing calculator. Students are required to take the TNReady End-of-Course Exam in Algebra 2 with the exam score included as a part of the student’s final grade in the course. Students enrolling in this course must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the prerequisite course.  Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment. Have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the prerequisite course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Precalculus AB SDC", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 2 Adv", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-89 graphing calculator. Students completing this course are prepared for AP Calculus AB.", "Description": "Precalculus AB SWDC is designed to prepare students for college level STEM focused courses.  Students use previous knowledge to continue progressing in their understanding of polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions, and extend learning in the following topics areas: vectors, conic sections, parametric equations, and regression analysis to model quantitative data. This course will offer State Dual Credit upon successful completion of the State Precalculus Challenge Exam.  Students enrolling in this course must have a teacher recommendation and/or passing grade of the prerequisite course and “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP Assessment.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Precalculus BC SDC S, T, E, M", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 2/Trigonometry, Honors.", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-89 graphing calculator.  Students completing this course may be qualified for AP Calculus BC.", "Description": "Emphasis is placed on a rigorous problem-solving approach and mathematical development with calculator enhancement of the following topics: number theory, sequences and series, limit theory, probability, data analysis/statistics, polynomial functions, rational functions, logarithmic and exponential functions, trigonometric functions, analytic geometry, parametrics, and vectors.   This course will offer State Dual Credit upon successful completion of the State Precalculus Challenge Exam. Students enrolling in this course must have a teacher recommendation and/or passing grade of the prerequisite course and “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP Assessment.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "DE Precalculus", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 2; 3.0 GPA; 23 or higher on the math portion of the ACT", "Notes": "A calculator with trig and log functions will be needed by the student. See the Dual Enrollment Section of the Academic Planning Guide for more information about registering for dual enrollment credit.   This course is only open to Seniors.", "Description": "Pre-calculus is designed to prepare students for college level STEM focused courses.  Students who take this course will dually enroll at Roane State Community College.  This course is designed primarily for students planning to enter the calculus sequence in college. Topics include functions and graphing-algebraic, trigonometric, exponential and logarithmic, equations, the binomial theorem, and conics.  Students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the assessment and the prerequisites dictated by the post-secondary institution required for the coursework.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "SAILS Statistics", "GPA": "0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 2", "Notes": "Only for seniors with an 18 or lower on the math portion of the ACT or comparable score on the mathematics portion of the SAT.", "Description": "SAILS is a course designed to allow students whose ACT is 18 or less in the math section an opportunity to earn their college remedial math credit. SAILS is a 3-part course. The first part focuses on the remedial math credit, the second part focuses on the SDC statistics standards, while the third part provides students with the opportunity to earn an entry level college math credit while preparing them for college algebra.  Students will have an opportunity to earn State Dual Credit upon successful completion of the State Statistics Challenge Exam.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Applied Mathematical Concepts", "GPA": "0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 2", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-84 graphing calculator. This course is only open to Seniors.", "Description": "Applied Mathematical Concepts is primarily focused on mathematics as applied to real life problems. Topics of study include financial mathematics, linear programming, Logic and Boolean Algebra, as well as topics in probability and statistics. This course satisfies the state requirement for the fourth year of mathematics.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Statistics SDC", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 2; 19 or higher on the math portion of the ACT", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-84 graphing calculator. This course is only open to Seniors.  This course can count as a 3rd business elective if taken after Accounting I.", "Description": "The four major themes of this course include: (1) Exploring Data, (2) Probability, (3) Probability Distributions, and (4) Sampling and Experimentation.   This course will offer State Dual Credit upon successful completion of the State Statistics Challenge Exam. Students enrolling in this course must have a teacher recommendation and/or passing grade of the prerequisite course and “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP Assessment.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "DE Statistics", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 2; 3.0 GPA; 19 or higher on the math portion of the ACT", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-84 graphing calculator. See the Dual Enrollment Section of the Academic Planning Guide for more information about registering for dual enrollment credit.  This course is only open to Seniors. This course can count as a 3rd business elective if taken after Accounting I.", "Description": "The four major themes of this course include: (1) Exploring Data, (2) Probability, (3) Probability Distributions, and (4) Sampling and Experimentation. Students have the opportunity to earn college credit for MATH 1530 Probability & Statistics.  Students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the assessment and the prerequisites dictated by the post-secondary institution required for the coursework.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "AP Statistics", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Algebra 2", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-84 graphing calculator. This course can count as a 3rd business elective if taken after Accounting I.", "Description": "The four major themes of this course include: (1) Exploring Data: Describing patterns and departures from patterns, (2) Sampling and Experimentation: Planning and conducting a study, (3) Anticipating Patterns: Exploring random phenomena using probability distributions and simulation, and (4) Statistical Inference: Estimating population parameters and testing hypotheses. This course will be taught at the level of a college statistics course with the expectation that enrollees will likely take the AP Exam in May for a chance at college credit. Students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the prerequisite course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "AP Calculus AB", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": [""], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Pre-calculus AB SWDC or Pre-calculus BC SWDC", "Notes": "The Advanced Placement Testing Program will require the use of a graphing calculator on the AP Calculus AB and BC exams. This component increases the instructional time for additional content in the AP curriculum.   This course requires the use of a TI-89 graphing calculator. The Advanced Placement Calculus AB and BC exams are available for a fee for those students desiring to receive advanced placement credit at the college level. Students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the prerequisite course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment.", "Description": "This course will cover levels (A) and (B) seen under the AP Calculus-BC description.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "AP Calculus BC", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Year-long"], "Credits": ["2"], "Prerequisites": "Pre-calculus BC SWDC", "Notes": "The Advanced Placement Testing Program will require the use of a graphing calculator on the AP Calculus AB and BC exams. This component increases the instructional time needed for additional content into the AP curriculum. This course requires the use of a TI-89 graphing calculator. The Advanced Placement Calculus AB and BC exams are available for a fee for those students desiring to receive advanced placement credit at the college level.", "Description": "There are three levels of course work in the Advanced Placement Calculus curriculum:(A) Differential Calculus; (B) Integral Calculus; (C) Further applications of differential and integral calculus including formal integration, indeterminate forms, plane curve geometry, infinite series, and differential equations. Advanced Placement curricular outlines with more detailed descriptions of the courses are available through the calculus teachers. Students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the prerequisite course. Students should be “On Track” or “Mastered” on the most recent TCAP assessment.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "DE Linear Algebra", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": " Open to students who have completed AP Calculus BC with a minimum grade of C and a 3 or higher on the AP Exam. Select students with high A averages from Precalculus BC SWDC will be considered for this course if it is taken simultaneously with AP Calculus BC. The latter students must receive the recommendation of the Precalculus BC SWDC instructor.", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-89 calculator. Dual enrollment opportunity with Tennessee Tech. This course must be taken in conjunction with DE Multivariable Calculus and DE Differential Equations in order to satisfy the math graduation requirement.", "Description": "An introductory course in matrix algebra for mathematics, science and engineering students along with appropriate applications. Topics covered include Systems of linear equations, matrix algebra, inverses, matrix factorizations, determinants, vector spaces and dimension, rank, linear transformations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, inner product, orthogonal projections. This course is equivalent to MATH 2010 at Tennessee Tech University and students have the opportunity for dual enrollment. Students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the assessment and the prerequisites dictated by the post-secondary institution required for the coursework.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "DE Multivariable Calculus", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Term"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": " Open to students who have completed AP Calculus BC with a minimum grade of C and a 3 or higher on the AP Exam. Select students with high A averages from Precalculus BC SWDC will be considered for this course if it is taken simultaneously with AP Calculus BC. The latter students must receive the recommendation of the Precalculus BC SWDC instructor.", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-89 calculator. Dual enrollment opportunity with Tennessee Tech. This course must be taken in conjunction with Linear Algebra and Differential Equations in order to satisfy the math graduation requirement.", "Description": "This course covers typical topics from Calculus 3 including analytic geometry and vectors, differential calculus of functions of several variables, multiple integration, and topics from vector calculus. This course is equivalent to MATH 2110 at Tennessee Tech University and students have the opportunity for dual enrollment. Students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the assessment and the prerequisites dictated by the post-secondary institution required for the coursework.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "DE Differential Equations", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Term"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Open to students who have completed AP Calculus BC with a minimum grade of C and a 3 or higher on the AP Exam. Select students with high A averages from Precalculus BC SWDC will be considered for this course if it is taken simultaneously with AP Calculus BC. The latter students must receive the recommendation of the Precalculus BC SWDC instructor.", "Notes": "This course requires the use of a TI-89 calculator. Dual enrollment opportunity with Tennessee Tech. This course must be taken in conjunction with Linear Algebra and Multivariable Calculus in order to satisfy the math graduation requirement.", "Description": "An introductory course in differential equations. Topics covered include an introduction to Differential Equations and Terminology, First Order Differential Equations, Higher Order Homogeneous Linear Equations with Constant Coefficients, Cauchy-Euler Equations, The Laplace Transform method of solving Initial-Value Problems, Solutions of Linear Equations, Systems of Linear Differential Equations. This course is equivalent to MATH 2120 at Tennessee Tech University and students have the opportunity for dual enrollment. Students must have a teacher recommendation and/or grade of B or higher in the assessment and the prerequisites dictated by the post-secondary institution required for the coursework.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Math, Science, and Computer Science Thesis 1", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "Linear Algebra, Multivariable Calculus, Differential Equations and/or teacher recommendation", "Notes": "This course requires work over the summer between 10th and 11th grades.", "Description": "This course is designed to draw upon the expertise of scientific professionals in the community to serve as advisors for the student's thesis project. The statement of the problem to be studied, methodology employed, results with analysis and conclusions will be presented by the student in an 18 – 20 page written document at the culmination of the project. Such projects must involve computer science work to receive credit.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
{"Name": "Math, Science, and Computer Science Thesis 2", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "Linear Algebra, Multivariable Calculus, Differential Equations, and teacher recommendation", "Notes": "This course requires work over the summer between 11th and 12th grades.", "Description": "This course is designed to continue the research started in Thesis 1. Students will focus on research presentation through posters, oral presentations and an 18 – 20 page written document at the culmination of the project.", "Subject": ["Math"]},
],
