"Visual Arts": [
{"Name": "Art Foundations", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": "$25 Art Fee requested.", "Description": "Foundations of Art is an introductory and survey course. Foundations of Art provides a variety of experiences that build on concepts and techniques. It is designed to answer the question “What is Art?” Answers to this question are discovered through the exploration of two-dimensional and three- dimensional formats. Art history, design and composition, and aesthetic criticism are integrated into the curriculum. The purpose of this course is to foster critical thinking skills, strengthen art skills, broaden students’ knowledge and appreciation of art, and bring awareness as it appears in the world around them.  This course will prepare students for additional art courses. Independent work in a studio setting is a frequent expectation.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
{"Name": "Art Honors", "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Submission of a portfolio, interview with a high school art teacher, and recommendation from both their 8th grade art teacher and high school art teacher are required.", "Notes": "$25 Fee requested.", "Description": "Students will explore and learn multimedia of 2-D, 3-D and Digital Art Concepts. Students will present their work to the instructor and identify artists that share their style, process, and/or inspiration. Students will also learn the origins and history of art and research careers related to art in which their talents are recognized. The class is recommended for students who have exhibited a strong interest in art at the middle school level and have been recognized by their middle school art teacher for their interest and ability in this area. Four hours of art related community service are necessary to fulfill the honors requirement. After the completion of the course, students will be encouraged and prepared to advance their skills into other advanced art courses offered through the art department.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
{"Name": "Ceramics", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Teacher Recommendation Required and Foundations of Art", "Notes": "Art Fee $75 requested.", "Description": "Ceramics is a studio art course in which students will create hand built and wheel thrown clay pieces. Students must have a strong interest in working with clay materials. Students will learn basic hand- building, wheel throwing, firing, and alternative clay techniques. Students will create and design sculptural, functional, and well-crafted works of art as they relate to ceramics. There is a significant amount of studio maintenance required in this class and a grade is calculated for this activity.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
{"Name": "DE Ceramics", "GPA": "1.0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Teacher Recommendation and one year of ceramics", "Notes": "Art Fee:  $75 requested.  See Dual Enrollment section for more information.", "Description": "Dual Enrollment Ceramics is a studio art course which allows students to receive an art credit with an additional option to receive college credit. Students must have a strong interest in working with clay materials. Students will learn basic hand-building, wheel throwing, firing, and alternative clay techniques. Students will create and design sculptural, functional, and well-crafted works of art as they relate to ceramics. There is a significant amount of studio maintenance required in this class, and a grade is calculated for this activity. Attendance is an important factor in this class and will be considered when students apply for the course. Tools and materials are not available for home use. Upon completion of the college semester, students are required to submit a portfolio of their work for the college credit.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
{"Name": "AP Art Studio", "GPA": "1", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "Art Foundations and teacher recommendation.", "Notes": "Students will work with Foundation teacher to determine if any other art classes are needed to take this course. In lieu of exams, a portfolio is submitted to AP Central in April.  Class fee $30.00 requested.", "Description": "The AP Studio Art Course is designed for students who wish to assemble a body of artwork that demonstrates a high level of thought, growth, and quality. The course prepares students for one of three different AP Exams. Students choose from a 2-D design portfolio, drawing portfolio, or 3-D Design portfolio. Students work to develop a mastery of concept, composition, and execution of their personal ideas and themes in one of the chosen portfolio areas. The course emphasizes art making as an ongoing process involving critical thinking, personal expression, and material exploration, as well as a variety of concepts and approaches in design problem solving.  The course examines two aspects of portfolio development—Sustained Investigation and Selected Works. Throughout the year, the students complete work towards these two sections. Selected Works will be teacher driven, although previous quality work may be considered for this section. The theme for the development of a personal concentrated body of work will be identified through discussion and critique between the student and teacher. The Sustained Investigation will focus on a group of related works. These works must demonstrate a serious purpose and show growth over time. Group critiques are necessary for assessment throughout the art production. An ongoing dialog with the teacher and documentation of artwork will be mandatory. A group critique will be held one afternoon a week after school, it is strongly recommended that the student take part in this critique each week.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
{"Name": "Photography", "GPA": "", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "Art Foundations or Digital Art Foundations and art teacher recommendation", "Notes": "Class Fee $35.00 requested. It is recommended that the student have access to a dSLR camera for use in assignments outside of class. We also offer a limited number of dSLR cameras for student check out with proper documentation and on a first come, first served basis.", "Description": "This course is designed for the student who is interested in art as it relates to photography. The student will study an overview of the history of photography and understand the mechanics of digital single lens reflex cameras. Students will study composition and design and apply this knowledge to the taking of photographs. Students learn best practices for post processing and presentation of digital images. As students develop basic skills of working with a camera, we will begin creative manipulation of photographs.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
{"Name": "DE Photography", "GPA": "", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "Art Foundations and art teacher recommendation", "Notes": "Class Fee $35.00 requested. It is recommended that the student have access to a dSLR camera for use in assignments outside of class. We also offer a limited number of dSLR cameras for student check out with proper documentation and on a first come, first served basis.", "Description": "Dual Credit Ceramics is a studio art course which allows students to receive an art credit with an additional option to receive college credit. Students must have a strong interest in working with photography. The student will study an overview of the history of photography and understand the mechanics of digital single lens reflex cameras. Students will study composition and design and apply this knowledge to the taking of photographs. Students learn the basic techniques of best practices for post-processing images and printing digital images on inkjet printers. As students develop basic skills of working a camera, we will begin creative manipulation of photographs. Upon completion of the college semester students are required to submit a portfolio of their work for the college credit.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
{"Name": "Art 2-D, Honors", "GPA": ".5", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "Art Foundations and art teacher recommendation", "Notes": "Students coming from another school system must bring a portfolio and present this to one of the art teachers for recommendation. Class fee of $35 requested.", "Description": "This class is designed to concentrate on a variety of art making processes including mixed and printed media. Students will be encouraged to experiment with tools, techniques and materials. Through practice and discipline students will develop skills and an ability to communicate ideas and feelings through art and composition about life and the world. 2-D Advanced Art will include community volunteer work. Group critiques are necessary for assessment throughout the art production. An ongoing dialog with the teacher and documentation of artwork will be mandatory.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
{"Name": "Digital Art Foundations ", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1.0"], "Prerequisites": "None", "Notes": " Digital Art Foundations can satisfy the fine art graduation requirement. This course was designed as a stand only course for students interested in Digital Art but not Digital Arts & Design Pathway.", "Description": "This is a foundational course in the Visual Arts Department for students interested in art and design professions. The primary aim of this course is to build a strong understanding of the principles and elements of design and the design process. Upon completion of this course, proficient students will be able to utilize industry tools to conceptualize and create communications solutions which effectively reach targeted audiences. Students will acquire basic skills in illustration, typography, and photography. Standards in this course include career exploration, an overview of the history of design, basic business management, and legal issues. Skills learned in this path of study translate well into other STEM design applications, such as CAD.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
{"Name": "Printmaking", "GPA": "0", "Length": ["Semester"], "Credits": ["1"], "Prerequisites": "Art Foundations and art teacher recommendation", "Notes": "Students coming from another school system must bring a portfolio and present this to one of the art teachers for recommendation. Class fee of $35 requested.", "Description": "A comprehensive overview of printmaking processes for grades 9-12, after students have completed and received teacher recommendation and at least a B, or better, in Art Foundations. Students will learn techniques of fine art printmaking, e.g. relief printing, monotype, screen printing, collagraph, papermaking, and more. This course covers the distinctive nature of printmaking including: tools, inks, paper, plate preparation, registration, printing processes and qualities of prints e.g overlays, transparency, offset, and multiple images. The goal is for students to gain the skills and confidence to produce multiple images by hand printing and on a press while exploring personal visual expression. Hand printmaking techniques will engage the student with problem solving in drawing, design and color. Topics may include editions, suites and designation systems. Class sessions will comprise independent and collaborative printing and lecture, demonstrations, discussion, and critique. Students will be introduced to the work of artists and the history/tradition of fine art prints.", "Subject": ["Visual Arts"]},
],
